Let's now work on the characters hand it looks to me like this is just a cylinder or even a pipe with
part of it cut out and then an extrusion coming out of the back for the wrist.
So let's see if we can work on that.
To begin with I'm going to go to a brand new layer here and then come over to the Create tab and click
cylinder.
Now we don't need 32 sides on our cylinder here probably 12 will be enough.
And also I want to turn off the cap Phil so I'll choose nothing.
And there we go.
I'm going to come over here and press the period key on the number pad to zoom in to the selected object
and let's go ahead and rotate it here around the x axis and you can see it changing over here.
I'll go ahead and type in 90 degrees in the rotation.
And now let's scale this in.
So it's about the same width as our Lego hand there.
Are go to the scale manipulator and just bring it in about.
It's just an estimate here about like that.
All right.
So now that we have that let's go ahead and delete these bottom faces to make the hole in the hand here.
I'll tab into Edit Mode press control tab and choose face.
And let's go ahead and choose these four faces hit the x key and delete faces.
And now that we have this kind of half cylinder we need to give it some thickness.
And one way to do that is a modifier called solidify right here.
So let's turn that on let's add that.
And here we are down here you see within the solidify modifier we have a thicknesse field let me open
that up just a bit and if I click and drag on this you can see it adds thickness to our object and I'm
going to go ahead and add it about like that.
Maybe a little bit thicker than I think I need it simply because once we smooth it with the subdivision
surface modifier it's going to get a little bit thinner.
So I'll make it just a little bit thicker than I think it should be like that and if I tap into edit
mode you can see that really this is still the original object.
And this is just kind of a temporary preview of what's going to happen when we click apply.
So I tab back into object mode and click apply.
So now if we tap into edit mode you can see it's now all the same geometry it's the effect of the modifier
has been applied.
So OK we have our basic shape here.
What we need now is the wrist.
And this just looks like it's a piece extruded out of the top of the hand.
So if I tab into edit mode I think what I'm going to need to do is create a couple of faces up here
to extrude the wrist out of to do that let's insert a few edge loops I'll press control are and I'll
scroll the mouse wheel one time and click and then click again.
And now with our scale to all I'll just expand that out just a little bit to get the thickness of the
wrist.
All right.
So we've done that.
Let's go back to face mode with control tab and I'll hit the three key now and if I select these two
faces and hit the e key I can extrude this up to be the wrist and I'll just extruder it up.
I don't know about that far enough that we can insert it up into the arm here and I'll just click this
Z-axis scale and drag down and kind of flatten that up a bit.
Probably not needed since it's going to be up in the arm so that we can go ahead and do that.
All right.
So there we have the basic geometry of the hand.
Now what let's do is once again add a subdivision surface modifier and begin adding some edges.
So it doesn't collapse into a blob.
All right.
So let's add the subdivision surface modifier there it's kind of collapsing now I'll increase the view
to two.
I'll come over here to the tools tab and click smooth shading what's tab into edit mode and we can see
the unsmooth cage.
Now around the smooth object so we can kind of see where we need to insert our edge loops.
Press Control are and I'll insert an edge loop up here and another one down here maybe to hold that
edge.
We could probably use some to sharpen up the edges along here like this
and maybe some down here as well like this
OK and let's tab out of edit mode and yeah that's looking a little better.
Let's go ahead and turn on the layer where the rest of the character is I'll press shift and click this.
And now we can see our hand is a little big but that's ok we can scale it down with the Eski and then
switch to the move manipulator and move it over here into place.
I'll press the period key on the number pad to zoom into it and let's see if we can put it into place
here rotated a hair and I can just press g and move it like that.
Looks like we need to rotate it a bit from this side
and there we go there we have our characters hand.
Now we set up the arms so that when we rotate them they rotate around this pivot point.
But we need the hand to come along with it.
So one way to do that is to actually combine the hand with the arm so we can select the hand shift select
the arm and press control J to join the objects into one.
So a press control J.
And there we go.
So now I can rotate the arm at that point where we need the hand over here too.
And we could copy the hand and move it over and place it.
I think an easy way to do this would be just a mirror or this whole object over the way we have it.
So I'm going to select the arm at the x key and just delete it.
And now if we take this arm move the origin to the center of the grid or where the 3D cursor is currently.
Now remember that you can move the cursor to the center of the grid by pressing shift s and cursor to
center and then we can come up here to set origin and origin to 3D cursor.
Now we can use this to mirror around that origin point so that we can mirror the arm to the other side.
But we have values over here in the rotation field and if we try and mirror the object with these random
values here we're going to get some unpredictable results.
So to ensure that we get the results we want.
Let's go ahead and apply the rotation for this object to do that all selected in Object mode and press
control a.
And now we can apply the rotation to the object.
And there we go.
So now all of the values over here in the rotation fields are zeroes.
That's going to help.
So I'll come over here to add modifier mirror and there we go.
There's our other arm but if we rotate it we see that there is a problem here.
I'll do that.
We need to do a couple of things we need to separate these pieces out to be their own objects so they
can rotate around their pivot point at the shoulder.
So to separate these out first of all we need to apply the mirror modifier.
Let's do that.
And then let's tap into edit mode and we need to select one of these and split it out.
So I'll hover over this one.
Press the L key to select all linked components and I'll hover over this one and press the L key as
well.
Now to split this out we can press the P key and that will bring up the separate menu and I'll choose
to separate it by what I've selected.
And there we go.
So now these are two different objects so I'll make sure that this one is called arm L. and it is but
this one is also called Armel.
Let's change this to arm our and we'll change this one back to arm.
Well there we go.
Now the pivot points we need to make sure those pivot points are back at the shoulder.
So to isolate this on its own we can hide all the unselected pieces by pressing shift h.
So now we can tab into edit mode.
Choose this point right here and press shift s and move the cursor to the selected and tab out to object
mode and then move the origin to the 3D cursor.
And there we go.
So we have that one done.
Now let's press alt h to bring everything back.
Select this other arm shift h tab into edit mode select that point shift s cursor to selected back to
object mode set origin origin to 3D cursor and there we go.
Now I'll press alt h to bring everything back.
And now these arms can move independently.
Now we'll need to do that for the legs as well and also create a cylinder to fit right between the legs.
But I'm going to leave those to you.
I'll go ahead and work on that.
And in the next video we'll take a look at adding some colors and finishing up our Lego guy.